THE FINAL FRONTIER.
Kirk: SPACE:
OF THE STARSHIP ENTERPRISE.
THESE ARE THE VOYAGES
TO EXPLORE STRANGE NEW WORLDS,
ITS FIVE-YEAR MISSION:
AND NEW CIVILIZATIONS,
TO SEEK OUT NEW LIFE
WHERE NO MAN HAS GONE BEFORE.
TO BOLDLY GO
Spock: FIRST OFFICER'S LOG,
STARDATE 4187.3.
THE ENTERPRISE SHUTTLECRAFT
COPERNICUS IS EN ROUTE
TO STARBASE 25
WITH AN IMPORTANT CARGO --
A SLAVER STASIS BOX
DISCOVERED BY ARCHAEOLOGISTS
ON THE PLANET KZIN.
THE MOST REMARKABLE THING
THESE STASIS BOXES ARE
THE SLAVERS EVER PRODUCED.
INSIDE A STASIS BOX.
TIME STANDS STILL
A BILLION YEARS MEANS
NOTHING IN THERE.
WHAT IS IT, LIEUTENANT?
I'VE STUDIED THE HISTORY
OF THE SLAVER EMPIRE,
BUT IT'S SKETCHY.
WE KNOW THEY WERE MASTERS
OF ALL THE INTELLIGENT
BEINGS IN THIS GALAXY
A BILLION YEARS AGO,
UNTIL ONE RACE REVOLTED.
OF INFORMATION WE HAVE?
ARE THE STASIS BOXES
THE ONLY SOURCE
AND ALL THEIR SUBJECTS
Spock: THE SLAVERS
WERE EXTERMINATED
IN THE WAR THAT FOLLOWED.
INTELLIGENT LIFE HAD TO EVOLVE
ALL OVER AGAIN.
OF THOSE LOST CIVILIZATIONS.
THE STASIS BOXES ARE
THE ONLY REMNANT
WHY IS IT GLOWING LIKE THAT?
WHAT IS OUR POSITION?
MR. SULU!
PASSING BETA LYRAE, SIR.
142 DEGREES NORTH-EAST
OF GALACTIC PLANE.
MOST PECULIAR.
THIS INDICATES THERE IS
ANOTHER STASIS BOX
CIRCLING BETA LYRAE.
ANOTHER ONE?
IT WOULD BE MOST ILLOGICAL
THAT A STASIS BOX
WOULD REMAIN HERE
UNDISCOVERED FOR SO LONG.
ONE OF THE RARE SPECTACLES
OF THE GALAXY.
BETA LYRAE IS
THAT PASSES STOPS TO SEE IT.
ALMOST EVERY SHIP
A STASIS BOX DETECTOR.
MAYBE NO ONE ELSE
WAS CARRYING
POSSIBLE.
DETECTOR IS ANOTHER STASIS BOX.
THE ONLY KNOWN STASIS BOX
STILL...
-MR. SULU.
-YES, SIR?
THE BETA LYRAE SYSTEM.
WE'LL INVESTIGATE
BRING US ABOUT.
AYE, AYE, SIR.
Spock: STASIS BOXES
AND THEIR CONTENTS
ARE THE ONLY REMNANT
OF A SPECIES
WHICH RULED MOST OF THIS GALAXY
A BILLION YEARS AGO.
THEIR EFFECT ON SCIENCE
HAS BEEN INCALCULABLE.
IN ONE WAS FOUND
A FLYING BELT
WHICH WAS THE KEY
TO THE ARTIFICIAL
GRAVITY FIELD
USED BY STARSHIPS.
ANOTHER BOX CONTAINED
WITH THE PIN PULLED.
A DISRUPTER BOMB
AS A RESULT, ALL STASIS BOXES
ARE NOW UNDER THE JURISDICTION
OF STARFLEET,
KEY SPECIALISTS HANDLE THEM.
AND ONLY CERTAIN
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS,
THE BOXES ARE RARE,
AND WE SEEM TO HAVE FOUND
A SECOND ONE.
THESE LITTLE ICE-BOUND WORLDS.
I NEVER DID LIKE
TOURISTS HERE, LIEUTENANT.
Spock: WE ARE NOT
TO FIND ANOTHER STASIS BOX,
IF IT TAKES A STASIS BOX
MR. SPOCK,
EVER FIND THE FIRST ONE?
HOW DID ANYONE
AS WITH A NUMBER OF DISCOVERIES,
PURELY BY ACCIDENT,
LIEUTENANT.
TO BE ALMOST UNDER US,
THE OTHER BOX SEEMS
PERHAPS 30 METERS
BELOW THE ICE.
WE WON'T HAVE ANY TROUBLE
DIGGING FOR IT.
IN THIS LOW PRESSURE,
THE ICE SHOULD BOIL
AS SOON AS THE PHASERS
MELT IT.
[THUDDING]
Spock: I MUST TAKE
FULL RESPONSIBILITY
FOR THIS EVENT.
INSTEAD OF BEING WARNED
BY THE HIGHLY UNLIKELY
COINCIDENCE
OF A SECOND STASIS BOX,
I ALLOWED ITS POSSIBLE VALUE
TO INFLUENCE MY JUDGMENT.
THE KZINTI NOW POSSESS
OUR STASIS BOX.
ITS CONTENTS WILL DETERMINE
HOW MUCH DAMAGE
THE FEDERATION AND ITS PEOPLE.
MY ERROR HAS DONE
[SIGHS] WHERE ARE WE?
A KZINTI SPACECRAFT.
THAT ISN'T GOOD.
TO HAVE PHASERS, ARE THEY?
KZINTI AREN'T SUPPOSED
Spock: THE TREATY OF SIRIUS
DOES NOT PERMIT THEM
ANY WEAPONS AT ALL,
BEYOND POLICE VESSELS.
THE TREATY HAS BEEN BROKEN.
OBVIOUSLY,
A POLICE WEB.
WE WON'T BE ABLE TO MOVE
UNLESS WE CAN TURN IT OFF
SOMEHOW.
THE LEAN, BEDRAGGLED ONE
IS A READER OF MINDS.
ALL KZINTI TELEPATHS
-Uhura: I'VE HEARD
-[GRUNTS]
ARE UNHAPPY NEUROTICS.
HE FITS THE DESCRIPTION.
THERE IS NO SURE WAY TO GUARD
OUR THOUGHTS FROM HIM.
MR. SULU, HE IS NOT LIKELY
TO DEAL WITH ME
OR LIEUTENANT UHURA.
SHE AND I ARE INFERIOR BEINGS
TO THEM.
ARE MEAT EATERS.
BUT THE KZINTI
READING YOUR MIND,
IF YOU SENSE HIM
THINK OF EATING A RAW VEGETABLE.
INTO REVEALING THEIR PURPOSE.
MAYBE I CAN GOAD THEM
YES, SIR.
THIS MAY BE CRUCIAL.
LIEUTENANT UHURA.
IN THE PRESENCE
OF THE KZINTI,
DO NOT SAY ANYTHING,
DO NOT DO ANYTHING STARTLING.
TRY TO LOOK HARMLESS.
ANY SPECIAL REASON?
ARE YOU FORGETTING KZINTI
FEMALES ARE DUMB ANIMALS?
THE KZINTI MAY FORGET
IN AN EMERGENCY
AN INTELLIGENT CREATURE.
A HUMAN FEMALE IS
THANKS. THANKS A LOT.
I VALUE YOUR INTELLIGENCE,
LIEUTENANT,
TO SEIZE AN OPPORTUNITY
BUT WE MAY BE ABLE
TO ESCAPE
IF THE KZINTI BELIEVE
YOU HAVE NONE.
-Uhura: YES, SIR.
-IDENTIFY YOURSELF.
OF THE STARFLEET VESSEL
LIEUTENANT SULU
ENTERPRISE.
THIS IS FIRST OFFICER SPOCK.
YOU'RE A VULCAN.
I FEEL NO PRESSING NEED TO TALK
TO AN EATER OF ROOTS AND LEAVES.
HUMANS AT LEAST
ARE OMNIVOROUS.
I AM CHUFT CAPTAIN.
ABOARD THE PRIVATEER
YOU ARE PRISONERS
TRAITOR'S CLAW,
A STOLEN POLICE VESSEL.
STEALING MUST BE
A HABIT WITH YOU.
THIS SHIP, TWO STASIS BOXES.
KZINTI ARCHAEOLOGISTS
FOUND BOTH BOXES,
BUT THE ONE WE MANAGED
TO KEEP WAS EMPTY.
IT SERVED US WELL AS BAIT
TO DRAW YOU HERE,
THAT COULD DEVASTATE A GALAXY.
BUT THE SLAVERS HAD WEAPONS
THERE COULD BE ONE
IN THAT BOX.
FOUR WARS WITH HUMANKIND
AND LOST ALL OF THEM.
THE KZINTI FOUGHT
THE LAST ONE WAS
200 YEARS AGO,
LEARNED A THING SINCE.
AND YOU HAVEN'T
GUARD YOUR SPEECH.
YET TASTED HUMAN MEAT
NONE OF MY CREW HAS
AS OUR ANCESTORS DID.
WE WOULD WELCOME
THE OPPORTUNITY.
ALWAYS YOU HAVE HAD
SUPERIOR EQUIPMENT.
THAT WILL DEFEAT YOU AT LAST.
WE SEEK A WEAPON
THEN YOU'RE REALLY WORKING
FOR THE KZINTI GOVERNMENT.
[GROANS]
THE RECORDS WILL SHOW
THE TRAITOR'S CLAW
IS A STOLEN POLICE SHIP.
IF WE ARE CAPTURED,
THE HIGHEST OF KZIN
WILL REPUDIATE US.
YOU ARE MEAT FOR OUR TABLES.
BUT IF WE SUCCEED,
A PICTURE OF A SLAVER?
Sulu: COULD THAT BE
THE FIRST EVER DISCOVERED.
Spock: IF SO, IT IS
HISTORICAL FIND.
AN IMPORTANT
Uhura: IT LOOKS LIKE
FRESH MEAT.
IN THAT BOX, AND IT LOOKS FRESH.
OVER A BILLION YEARS
AH!
HAS EVER BEEN FOUND.
NOTHING LIKE THIS
WE ARE THE ONLY ONES
WHO HAVE IT.
LOOK AT IT, HUMAN.
THIS WEAPON MAY WELL MEAN
THE END OF MANKIND.
Spock: FIRST OFFICER'S LOG,
SUPPLEMENTAL.
THE KZINTI NOW POSSESS
A WEAPON
TO THE ENTIRE GALAXY.
POTENTIALLY DEADLY
THE EXTENT OF ITS POWER
REMAINS TO BE SEEN.
MOVED TO THE SURFACE
HAVE THE HUMANS
AND BE SURE THEY ARE SECURED
IN THE POLICE WEB.
TO TEST THE WEAPON.
WE WILL USE THEM
YES, CHUFT CAPTAIN.
YOU HAVE OBSERVED
THE ALIENS.
CAN YOU READ THEIR MINDS?
WITH DIFFICULTY, CHUFT CAPTAIN.
I CAN READ SULU,
IS ONLY A FEMALE.
THE OTHER HUMAN
A PACIFISTIC HERBIVORE.
THE THIRD IS
SURELY YOU WOULD NOT FORCE ME
TO DELVE SUCH MINDS?
IF IT IS NECESSARY.
I REALIZE THE TIME YOU NEED
TO RECOVER FROM EACH EFFORT.
Kzinti: CHUFT CAPTAIN,
WE HAVE FINISHED
TESTING THE MEAT
THAT WAS IN THE STASIS BOX.
IT IS PROTOPLASMIC
AND POISONOUS.
Captain: WHAT OF THE PICTURE?
BELIEVES IT TO BE A SLAVER.
THE HUMAN, SULU,
SO DO I.
IT WOULD HAVE MADE
A WORTHY ENEMY.
PERHAPS THE TOGGLE.
[STATIC BUZZING]
[GRUNTING]
AFFECTING HIM AT ALL?
TELEPATH! AM I NOT
IS IT THE LIFE SUPPORT BELT
INTERFERING?
NO, CHUFT CAPTAIN.
BUT HE FEELS NO ILL EFFECTS.
HE HEARS A FAINT WHINE,
IN THE METAL OF HIS BELT.
THERE IS A VIBRATION
HE IS TOO ALIEN.
CHUFT CAPTAIN,
HE MAKES ME TASTE YELLOW ROOT
MUNCHED BETWEEN FLAT TEETH.
BE GLAD IF YOU NEED NOT READ
THE VULCAN'S MIND.
[GRUNTS]
A COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE,
IT MAY BE
MEMBERS OF A RACE NOW DEAD.
OR A SONIC STUNNER
DESIGNED TO AFFECT
A GOOD SERVICEABLE TELESCOPE.
THEY BUILT WELL,
THESE SLAVERS.
IT IS OF NO USE TO US.
SMALL TELESCOPES.
WE ALREADY HAVE
I GIVE YOU CREDIT, HUMAN.
YOU ARE NOT AFRAID TO DIE.
MERELY A LASER.
THE FEDERATION HAS HAD
A MORE EFFECTIVE MODEL
FOR OVER 100 YEARS.
[GROANS]
TELEPATH'S SUIT IS RUPTURED!
THE FEMALE IS ESCAPING!
NEVER MIND THAT.
Kzinti: WHAT OF IT?
FOOL! HUMAN FEMALES
ARE INTELLIGENT.
CONSIDERABLE PRESSURE.
TELEPATH'S SUIT LOST
WE REACHED THE SHIP
IN TIME TO SAVE HIM.
GOOD. WE WILL NEED HIM LATER.
WHAT IS THIS?
A PERSONAL ROCKET MOTOR.
PERHAPS
ONE COULD PLACE ONE'S FOOT
ON THE PEDALS AND BALANCE.
TRANSPORTATION, NOT A WEAPON.
IT APPEARS TO BE
NICE TRY.
I'M SLOWING DOWN.
I USED TO RUN THE 100
IN RECORD TIME.
HOW LONG WAS I OUT?
DID I MISS MUCH?
NOT MUCH.
A LOT OF GOOD THEY'LL GET
[CHUCKLES]
OUT OF THAT ROCKET SETTING.
NONE OF THE SETTINGS SO FAR
HAVE BEEN SUPERIOR
WE ARE FORTUNATE
NOW AVAILABLE TO THE FEDERATION.
TO THE TECHNOLOGY
Uhura: UH-OH!
NO OBVIOUS WAY TO AIM IT.
NO GUN SIGHT.
[ELECTRONIC BUZZING]
MR. SPOCK. I CAN MOVE.
THE POLICE WEB IS OFF.
SO CAN I.
THE FIFTH SETTING SEEMS TO BE
AN ENERGY ABSORBER.
FASCINATING.
THE SLAVERS HAD SUCH THINGS.
I HAD NO IDEA
-MR. SPOCK, WE...
-Spock: YES.
WHEN I GIVE THE WORD,
MAKE FOR THE SHUTTLE.
REMEMBER TO ZIGZAG.
READY? GO.
CHUFT CAPTAIN,
WHAT HAPPENED?
I WOULD RATHER
NOT DISCUSS IT.
HELP ME INTO THE SHIP.
MR. SPOCK!
ONE OF THE ALIENS.
I THOUGHT IT WAS
I HAVE THE WEAPON.
AND SUBSPACE RADIO.
THEY'VE GOT UHURA
THEY CAN CALL FOR HELP
FROM THE KZIN PLANET
THE WEAPON'S WORTH IT.
IF THEY THINK
NO, THEY CANNOT.
-OR RATHER, WILL NOT.
-Sulu: WHY?
BECAUSE I KICKED CHUFT CAPTAIN.
CONSIDER.
CHUFT CAPTAIN HAS BEEN ATTACKED
BY AN HERBIVOROUS PACIFIST,
AN EATER OF LEAVES
AND ROOTS,
ONE WHO TRADITIONALLY
DOES NOT FIGHT.
AND THE ULTIMATE INSULT,
I LEFT HIM ALIVE.
CHUFT CAPTAIN'S HONOR
IS AT STAKE.
HE MUST SEEK PERSONAL REVENGE
BEFORE HE CAN CALL FOR HELP.
THAT GIVES US SOME TIME.
YOU DID PLAN IT THAT WAY?
OF COURSE.
AS LONG AS YOU STAY FREE,
OR WON'T DO ANYTHING.
THE KZINTI CAN'T
LIEUTENANT UHURA AS A BRIBE.
BUT THEY COULD USE
HOWEVER, TO THIS POINT,
AGREED,
ANYTHING MORE POWERFUL
WE HAVE NOT SEEN
STARFLEET ALREADY HAS.
THAN EQUIPMENT
YES.
BUT I HAVE A FEELING,
MR. SPOCK.
THIS WEAPON MUST HAVE
BELONGED TO A SPY,
AN ESPIONAGE AGENT.
I ACKNOWLEDGE YOUR EXPERTISE
IN THE FIELD OF WEAPONS,
MR. SULU,
BUT I DO NOT SEE HOW YOU CAN
DETERMINE PROBABLE OWNERSHIP.
WELL, HERE, LOOK AT IT.
ALL THESE SETTINGS.
WE DON'T KNOW A COMMON SLAVER
SOLDIER COULDN'T HANDLE THEM,
ONLY THE LASER IS EFFECTIVE.
BUT AS A WEAPON,
THE OTHERS AREN'T NECESSARY
FOR THE LINE SOLDIER'S
ONE PURPOSE,
TO DESTROY THE ENEMY.
A SPY WEAPON THEN,
ASSUMING IT'S
THE SLAVERS WOULD HAVE WANTED
TO KEEP IT A SECRET WEAPON.
A SELF-DESTRUCT SETTING, TOO.
IF SO, IT IS LOGICAL
TO ASSUME IT HAS
BUT WE'VE SEEN
ALL THE PHASES.
PERHAPS NOT.
THERE IS THE NULL SETTING.
IT SEEMS TO DO NOTHING.
BUT WHY SHOULD IT BE THERE?
IT DOES NOT CORRESPOND
TO A SAFETY LOCK.
TO ANOTHER SETTING.
IT MAY BE THE KEY
[RUMBLING]
THIS IS THE TRAITOR'S CLAW
CALLING MR. SULU.
WE HAVE THE FEMALE PRISONER.
OR MUST WE TAKE HARSH ACTION?
WILL YOU BARGAIN,
IT WILL NOT BE PLEASANT
FOR HER.
THE FEMALE PRISONER AS HOSTAGE.
Captain: I REPEAT. WE HAVE
YOU HAVE SOMETHING WE WANT.
WE WILL TRADE HER LIFE
FOR THE SLAVER WEAPON.
ANSWER HIM, LIEUTENANT.
LIEUTENANT SULU HERE.
WHAT ABOUT MR. SPOCK?
Captain: HE MUST SURRENDER.
I WILL OFFER HIM
SINGLE COMBAT.
NOT INTERESTED.
I AM AS THE VULCAN LEFT ME,
WITH TWO RIBS BROKEN.
I HAVE NOT SET THEM
NOR BANDAGED MYSELF.
HE MAY CONCEIVABLY KILL ME.
SOME VERTICAL BRACING.
KZINTI RIBS HAVE
BUT I KICKED HIM
OVER ONE HEART.
OF MY DEFEATING CHUFT CAPTAIN
I COMPUTE THE ODDS
IN COMBAT
AT 16-TO-1 AGAINST.
OFFER REFUSED.
THEY THINK VERY LITTLE
OF YOU.
WRONG. THEY DON'T
THINK MUCH OF YOU.
[GRUNTING]
WOULD NOT HAVE A GUN SIGHT.
A SELF-DESTRUCT MECHANISM
WHAT THIS DOES DO.
NO. LET'S SEE
WE CAN'T GIVE THEM THAT!
FASCINATING.
NO WORLD IN THE FEDERATION HAS
PRODUCED ANYTHING SO POWERFUL.
THEORETICAL LIMITS.
ALMOST BEYOND
OF MATTER TO ENERGY
TOTAL CONVERSION
AT A DISTANCE.
IF THE KZINTI HAD THAT,
THE WHOLE GALAXY WOULD BE
THEIR DINNER TABLE.
HIT THE DIRT!
WHAT WOULD THIS BE?
IT IS GENERATING POWER.
I HAVE NO IDEA.
THERE IS A GRID.
COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE.
IT MAY BE ANOTHER
BUT THAT SEEMS REDUNDANT.
[BEEPING]
IT HAS THE KZINTI FRIGHTENED.
WEAPONS HAUNTED BY THEIR OWNERS.
THE KZINTI HAVE LEGENDS OF
A VOICE-ACTIVATED MECHANISM?
COULD IT BE
NO. IT APPEARS TO BE
CONVERSING WITH THEM.
A REASONING COMPUTER
THAT SMALL?
SINCE YOU WERE TURNED OFF?
HOW LONG HAS IT BEEN
I DO NOT KNOW.
WHEN I AM OFF,
I HAVE NO SENSE
OF PASSING TIME.
WHAT IS THE LAST THING
YOU REMEMBER?
WE WERE ON A MISSION.
I MAY NOT TELL YOU OF IT
CERTAIN CODE WORDS.
UNLESS YOU KNOW
THE POSITIONS OF THE STARS
IF YOU COULD DESCRIBE
IN YOUR SECTOR,
WE WOULD KNOW HOW MUCH TIME
HAS PASSED SINCE THEN.
WITHOUT CERTAIN CODE WORDS,
I MAY NOT DESCRIBE
OUR LOCATION.
A TOTAL CONVERSION BEAM.
ONE OF THE SETTINGS
ON THIS WEAPON WAS
TELL US HOW TO FIND IT.
WE SAW IT.
TWIST MY WIDDERSHINS
THE NULL POSITION.
UNTIL YOU REACH
THEN...
THEY'VE GOT IT.
THERE MUST BE SOMETHING
WE CAN DO.
MOST PECULIAR.
CONVERSION BEAM SETTING.
THAT WAS NOT THE TOTAL
THIS FORM SEEMS TO POSSESS
LIKE OTHERS,
NO GUN SIGHT.
FOR USE ONLY FROM ORBIT.
A BROAD-BEAM WEAPON,
Kzinti: IT MAY BE
AT A VERY DISTANT TARGET.
I SUGGEST YOU FIRE
WE SAW ITS POWER.
VERY WELL.
WE CAN'T LET THEM
HAVE THAT WEAPON.
TO GET IT, LIEUTENANT.
THEY ARE NOT ABOUT
WHY NOT?
A SLAVER WAR COMPUTER.
ASSUME YOU ARE
YOU'VE BEEN TURNED OFF.
YOU DO NOT KNOW FOR HOW LONG,
BUT WHEN YOU WERE TURNED OFF,
THERE WAS A WAR ON.
YOU NEVER SAW BEFORE.
AWAKENED BY ALIENS
NOW YOU ARE
ANY OF THE MILITARY PASSWORDS.
THEY DO NOT KNOW
SO MANY QUESTIONS
THEY ASK YOU
THEY KNOW LITTLE ABOUT YOU.
IT IS OBVIOUS
YOUR OWNER IS NOWHERE ABOUT.
WHAT WOULD YOU THINK?
CAPTURED BY THE ENEMY.
I'D THINK I'D BEEN
OR AN ENEMY, AT LEAST.
AND WHEN THEY ASKED YOU
HOW TO FIND YOUR MOST POWERFUL
WEAPON SETTING,
WHAT WOULD YOU GIVE THEM?
ACTIVATE LIFE SUPPORT BELTS.
A DISRUPTER FIELD.
ANOTHER CONVENTIONAL WEAPON.
YES.
THE TOTAL CONVERSION BEAM
IT APPEARS
WAS THE ONLY THING
THE SLAVERS HAD
THAT WE DO NOT.
Sulu: NO SIGN OF THE WEAPON,
OF COURSE.
IT WOULD HAVE LOOKED NICE
IN SOME MUSEUM.
IT NEVER WOULD HAVE REACHED
THE MUSEUM, LIEUTENANT.
THERE WAS TOO MUCH POWER
IN THAT ONE SETTING.
OR SOME OTHER SPECIES
IF NOT THE KZINTI,
THE KLINGONS
WOULD HAVE TRIED
TO POSSESS IT.
SOMETIMES BREAKS THROUGH
STRANGE, HOW THE PAST
INTO THE PRESENT.
THAT ANCIENT WAR COULD
HAVE SPARKED A NEW WAR
BETWEEN MAN AND KZINTI.
DIDN'T YOU SAY THE KZINTI
HAVE LEGENDS OF WEAPONS
HAUNTED BY THEIR DEAD OWNERS?
YES, AN ANCIENT SUPERSTITION.
Uhura: [LAUGHS]
AT THIS RATE,
THOSE OLD SUPERSTITIONS.
THEY'LL NEVER GET OVER